# OPCODES and AdressingModes
The NES 6502 CPU has 56 different OPCODES and 13 different addressing modes.


## Adressing Modes
https://blogs.oregonstate.edu/ericmorgan/2022/01/21/6502-addressing-modes/

It seems like the article above uses the term "word" to refer to 2 bytes of instructions?
These contain an address in memory (2 bytes = 16 bits => `uint16_t`, there are `0xFFFF` = `max(uint16_t)`
possible memory addresses)


THe 13 Adressing modes are

- Accumulator
- Absolute
- Absolute X
- Absolute Y
- Immediate
- Implied
- Indirect
- Indirect X
- Indirect Y
- Relative
- ZeroPage
- ZeroPage X
- ZeroPage Y

### Accumulator
Operate against the current value in the accumulator register.

2 cycles

**Example:**
The following assembly does a logic shift right on the value stored in the accumulator
```asm
0x4A # lsr accumulator
```

### Absolute, Absolute X, Absolute Y
**This addressing mode is not super clear to me right now.**

2 additional bytes are read after the opcode that make up a word(?). The word defines the address against which to operate.
Instruction can be incremented by the values from the X or Y registers.

4 cycles, 5 cycles if the value of the high byte is changed

I'm thinking that this word may represent the index of the element in memory on which to operate?

### Immediate
1 addtional byte is read, byte represent the value against which to operate.

2 cycles

**Example:**
The following assembly code loads the value `0xAA` into the accumulator register
```asm
0xA9 #lda immediate
0xAA 
```

### Implied
Basically no addressing mode, the data on which to operate is implied based on the instruction

2 cycles

**Example:**
The following pushes the value from the accumulator register on to the stack
```asm
0x48 # pha implied
```

### Indirect
Return a value located at specific address. Word is read following the instruction which represents a memory location.
Value at this location is read and returned

5 cycles

### Indirect X, Indirect Y
Similar to indirect. _signle_ byte following the instruction is read. Added to the ZeroPage(?) and offset by the value in the
X/Y register. The word at the calculated address is returned. 

Indirect X increments without a carry while indirect Y increments and CAN carry.

5 cycles for indirect Y, 6 cycles for indirect X
**Indirect Y also uses 6 cycles if it carries**

### Relative
Used for branch operations. When used, single byte following the instruction is read. This byte represents
a **signed integer** that offsets from the current program counter.

2 cycles, 3 cycles if the offset crosses into a new page

### ZeroPage, ZeroPage X, ZeroPage Y
Targets valyes following a beginning of the memory (zeropage).
When run, byte is read following the instruction, representing an offset from the ZeroPage. ZeroPage X and Y 
addtionally add the X or Y register value to this offset.
if the additional to the index causes the instruction to carry, the carry is dropped and the return address
just wraps back to 0.

Main use case is accessing frequently used variables.

3 cycles, X and Y variant 4 cycles



## The stack
The 6502 has a stack located at `0x0100-0x01FF`. The stack is 256 bytes in total and stores single byte values.
The stack pointer is initialised at `0x01FF` and values are pushed with decreasing address.
